IRAN NUCLEAR WEAPONS TALKS
INTENSIFY IN THE 11th HOUR.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY:
NIGERIA ON EDGE.
AFRICA'S LARGEST ECONOMY AWAITS
FINAL RESULTS IN A PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION STILL TOO CLOSE TO
CALL.
PLUS, TESTING FOR IMPLICIT BIAS
AND PREJUDICE.
A SCIENCE LABORATORY STUDIES
SUBTLETY OF RACISM.
>> Sreenivasan: IN THIS TEST, I
HAD UNDER A SECOND TO DECIDE
WHETHER OR NOT TO SHOOT THE
PERSON THAT FLASHED ON SCREEN-
BASED ON JUST ONE THING- WHETHER
OR NOT THEY WERE HOLDING A GUN.
SOMETIMES THE MEN WERE WHITE,
SOMETIMES THEY WERE BLACK.
>> Woodruff: PLUS...
>> THE DISEASE HAS BEEN WITH US
AS LONG ASE HA WVE BEEN HERE AS
HUMAN BEINGS.
>> Woodruff: A MONUMENTAL
DOCUMENTARY ON THE EMPEROR OF
ALL MALADIES.
WE SIT DOWN WITH KEN BURNS AND
DOCTOR SIDHAHA MRTUKHERJEE ABOUT
THEIR NEW FILM ON CANCER.
>> THIS IS A KIND OF STATE OF
THE WORLD REPORT ON ANSWER AND
YOU HAVE TO KNOW IT BECAUSE IT'S
GOING TO COME INTO YOUR LIFE
WHETHER YOU WANT TO IT OR NOT.
>> Woodruff: AND...
>> WE ARE NOW GOING FROM PROBING
SPACE TO MOVING AWAY FROM EARTH.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IT'S LIKE TO
LIVE OUT OF THIS WORLD, AS THE
FIRST AMERICAN KICKS OFF AN
ENTIRE YEAR ON THE INTERNATIONAL
SPACE STATION.
WE TALK TO ASTRONAUT CHRIS
HADFIELD.
>> IT IS REALLY GOING TO HELP US
NOT ONLY UNDERSTAND SPACE FLIGHT
FOR LONG-TERM FLIGHT, FOR GOING
FROM HERE TO THE MOON AND MARS
AND BEYOND, BUT ALSO JUST
UNDERSTAND THE SUBTLE CHANGES
THAT HAPPEN WITHIN THE BODY AND
TEACH US INHERENTLY ABOUT HUMAN
PHYSIOLOGY.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: WALL STREET CAME
OUT OF THE GATE TODAY IN A MOOD
TO RUN.
STOCKSURGE SD AHEAD IN PART
BASED ON UPBEAT ECONOMIC
REPORTS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 260 POINTS TO CLOSE BACK
NEAR 18,000.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 56, AND THE S&P
500 ADDED 25.
REPUBLICAN LEGISLATIVE LEADERS
IN INDIANA NOW SAY THEY'LL
CLARIFY A NEW RELIGIOUS FREEDOM
STATUTE.
IT'S SPARKED A STORM OF
CRITICISM FROM OPPONENTS WHO SAY
IT WOULD PERMIT BUSINESSES TO
REFUSE TO SERVE GAYS AND
LESBIANS.
INDIANA STATE HOUSE SPEAKER
BRIAN BOSMA SAID TODAY THE NEW
MODIFYING LANGUAGE WILL MAKE
CLEAR THAT'S NOT THE CASE.
>> THAT SHOULD REMOVE THE
QUESTION THAT HAS MANY HOOSIERS
AND FOLKS ALL OVER THE COUNTRY
CONCERNED AND THAT IS, IS A GAY
OR LESBIAN INDIVIDUAL GOING TO
BE DENIED SERVICES WHEN THEY GO
TO A RESTAURANT OR WHEN THEY
TAKE THEIR DRY CLEANING IN?
THAT WAS NEVER THE INTENT, IT'S
NOT THE EFFECT, BUT WE'RE
WILLING TO CLARIFY THAT.
>> Woodruff: DEMOCRATS SAID
THERE'S NO WAY TO FIX THE LAW.
INSTEAD, STATE SENATE MINORITY
LEADER TIM LANANE CALLED FOR
OUTRIGHT REPEAL.
>> THE REPUBLICANS STILL THINK
THIS IS A GOOD IDEA, THAT THIS
IS A GOOD LAW.
UNFORTUNATELY, REPUBLICAN
LEADERSHIP HAS UTTERLY FAILED IN
THEIR HANG
THE GOVERNOR AND THE REPUBLICAN
LEADERS WON'T SAY IT, BUT WE
WILL: DISCRIMINATION IS WRONG
AND IT SHOULD BE ILLEGAL.
>> Woodruff: ALREADY, SOME
BUSINESSES AND ORGANIZATIONS ARE
PROTESTING BY CANCELING PLANS
FOR EXPANSION AND FOR MEETINGS
IN INDIANA.
THERE'VE EVEN BEEN CALLS FOR THE
NCAA TO MOVE THE COMING MEN'S
COLLEGE BASKETBALL FINAL FOUR
TOURNAMENT OUT OF INDIANAPOLIS.
A COALITION LED BY SAUDI ARABIA
STEPPED UP ITS MILITARY CAMPAIGN
IN YEMEN TODAY, WITH A NAVAL
BLOCKADE.
THE SAUDIS SAID IT'S AIMED AT
PREVENTING SHIITE REBELS FROM
MOVING WEAPONS AND FIGHTERS IN
OR OUT OF THE COUNTRY.
MEANWHILE, HUMANITARIAN WORKERS
SAID A COALITION AIR STRIKE
KILLED AT LEAST 40 REFUGEES.
YEMEN'S FOREIGN MINISTER BLAMED
REBEL ARTILLERY.
IRAN'S REVOLUTIONARY GUARD IS
CLAIMING A U.S. DRONE STRIKE
KILLED TWO OF ITS ADVISORS
IN IRAQ LAST MONDAY.
THE GUARD SAYS THEY WERE AIDING
AN IRAQI OFFENSIVE TO RETAKE THE
CITY OF TIKRIT FROM ISLAMIC
STATE FIGHTERS.
AMERICAN-LED AIR STRIKES ARE NOW
SUPPORTING THAT EFFORT.
U.S. OFFICIALS DISPUTE THE
IRANIAN CLAIM.
THEY SAY THERE WERE NO COALITION
AIR STRIKES AROUND TIKRIT ON
MONDAY.
GERMAN AUTHORITIES CONFIRMED
TODAY THE CO-PILOT OF THAT
DOOMED GERMANWINGS AIRLINER, HAD
CONTEMPLATED KILLING HIMSELF.
IT'S BELIEVED ANDREAS LUBITZ
DELIBERATELY CRASHED THE PLANE
IN FRANCE LAST WEEK, KILLING ALL
150 PEOPLE ON BOARD.
WE HAVE MORE FROM REBECCA BARRY
OF INDEPENDENT TELEVISION NEWS.
>> Reporter: TODAY, WE LEARNED
THE PILOT HAD SUFFERED FROM
SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS.
THEROS PECUTOR IN DUSSELDORF
SAYS, "SEVERAL YEARS AGO BEFORE
HE GOT HIS PILOT'S LICENSE, HE
HAD EXTENDED PSYCHOLOGICAL
THERAPY BECAUSE HE HAD SUICIDAL
TENDENCIES.
BUT, HE SAYS, AT THE TIME OF THE
CRASH, THERE WAS NO EVIDENCE
THAT HE WAS SUICIDAL OR
AGGRESSIVE."
INVESTIGATORS HAVE ALREADY FOUND
TORN UP SICK NOTES HERE AT HIS
FLAT STATING THAT HE WAS UNFIT
TO WORK AT THE TIME OF THE
CRASH.
PEOPLE FROM BOTH HIS PRIVATE AND
HIS PROFESSIONAL LIFE HAVE BEEN
QUESTIONED AND, SO FAR,
PROSECUTORS SAY THERE'S NO SIGN
THAT HE TOLD ANYONE WHAT HE WAS
PLANNING OR THAT HE LEFT A
SUICIDE NOTE.
AND, THEY SAY, THERE'S NO
EVIDENCE OF ANY SPECIFIC EVENT,
EITHER AT HOME OR WORK THAT
COULD HAVE BEEN A MOTIVE.
MEANWHILE, IN THE FRENCH ALPS
THEY'RE BUILDING A ROAD TO HELP
THE RECOVERY TEAMS ACCESS THE
REMOTE CRASH SITE.
>> Woodruff: GERMANWINGS PARENT
COMPANY, LUFTHANSA, SAID TODAY
IT HAD NOT KNOWN OF LUBITZ'S
MEDICAL HISTORY BECAUSE THOSE
RECORDS WERE KEPT CONFIDENTIAL
UNDER GERMAN LAW.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, THE F.B.I.
SAYS THERE'S NO APPARENT
CONNECTION TO TERRORISM IN AN
INCIDENT TODAY OUTSIDE THE
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY, AT
FORT MEADE, MARYLAND.
OFFICIALS SAY TWO MEN WEARING
DRESSES DROVE A STOLEN CAR
TOWARD THE FRONT GATE, AND
REFUSED TO STOP.
INSTEAD, THEY SPED UP, OFFICERS
OPENED FIRE, AND THEY SMASHED
INTO A POLICE CAR.
ONE OF THE MEN WAS KILLED, AND
THE OTHER WAS HURT, ALONG WITH
AN OFFICER.
BOSTON WELCOMED NATIONAL LEADERS
OF BOTH PARTIES TODAY TO
DEDICATE THE EDWARD KENNEDY
INSTITUTE FOR THE UNITED STATES
SENATE.
THE CENTER INCLUDES A FULL-SCALE
REPLICA OF THE SENATE CHAMBER.
KENNEDY DIED IN 2009 AFTER
SERVING IN THAT BODY FOR 47
YEARS.
SOME 1,800 FAMILY, FRIENDS AND
OTHERS ATTENDED TODAY, LED BY
PRESIDENT OBAMA.
>> WHAT BETTER TESTAMENT TO THE
LIFE OF TED KENNEDY THAN THIS
PLACE, TO BE LEFT TO A NEW
GENERATION OF AMERICANS.
A MONUMENT NOT TO HIMSELF, BUT
TO WHAT WE, THE PEOPLE, HAVE THE
POWER TO DO TOGETHER.
>> Woodruff: THE NEW INSTITUTE
STANDS NEXT TO THE PRESIDENTIAL
LIBRARY OF THE SENATOR'S
BROTHER, JOHN F. KENNEDY.
AND, "COMEDY CENTRAL" HAS CHOSEN
THE NEW HOST OF "THE DAILY
SHOW."
31-YEAR-OLD SOUTH AFRICAN TREVOR
NOAH WILL SUCCEED JON STEWART,
WHO'S HOSTED THE SATIRICAL NEWS
SHOW FOR 16 YEARS.
STEWART ANNOUNCED LAST MONTH
HE'S LEAVING.
IT'S NOT YET CLEAR WHEN NOAH
WILL TAKE OVER.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
DOWN TO THE WIRE FOR AN IRAN
NUCLEAR WEAPONS DEAL.
THE HIGHLY ANTICIPATED RESULTS
FROM NIGERIA'S ELECTIONS.
THE WEEK AHEAD IN POLITICS WITH
SUSAN PAGE AND MARGARET TALEV.
TESTING HUMAN INSTINCTS FOR
SIGNS OF SUBTLE RACISM.
A NEW DOCUMENTARY SERIES ON THE
EMPEROR OF ALL MALADIES.
AND, WHAT IT'S LIKE TO LIVE IN
SPACE.
>> Woodruff: THE DEADLINE FOR
REACHING AN INTERIM DEAL WITH
IRAN OVER ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM IS
IN THE FINAL HOURS, AND THERE
ARE NEW DOUBTS ON WHETHER AN
NGREEMENT WILL BE REACHED I
TIME.
A U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT
SPOKERE'S
ONLY A 50/50 CHANCE OF IT
HAPPENING BY TOMORROW, AS GAPS
REMAIN BETWEEN IRAN AND OTHER
PARTIES AT THE TALKS IN
SWITZERLAND.
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN HAS BEEN
COVERING THE TWIST AND TURNS AT
THE TALKS FOR BLOOMBERG.
I SPOKE TO HER A SHORT TIME AGO.
AND, INDIRA LAKSHMANAN JOINS US
NOW.
JUST DOWN TO THE WIRE, A DAY
LEFT.
HOW DOES IT LOOK?
>> THE ONLY QUESTION NOW TO
WHICH NONE OF US HAVE AN ANSWER
IS WILL THEY HAVE A DEAL OR NO
DEAL?
SEEMS THE MINISTER THEMSELVES
DON'T KNOW.
THE RUSSIAN MENSTER LEFT TALKS
AFTER LESS THAN A DAY.
HE'S GOING TO MOLES COW AND ONLY
WILL COME BACK TOMORROW IF HE
HAS A SENSE THEY'RE REDIO TO
SIGN.
THE CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTER ON
OPTIMISTIC NOTE TALKED ABOUT
PROGRESS.
JOHN KERRY SAID THERE IS
PROGRESS BUT TRICK ISSUES THAT
NEED TO BE RESOLVED.
24 HOURS, WE'LL KNOW WHETHER
THEY'RE ABLE TO PUT SOMETHING
TOGETHER TO CALL A FRAMEWORK
ACCORD OR GO BACK TO THE DRAWING
BOARD AND EXTEND THE DEADLINE
ONE MORE TIME.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU HAVE A GED
SENSE AT THIS POINT OF WHAT THE
STICKING POINTS REALLY ARE?
>> YEAH, FOR THE MOST PART IT
SEEMS IRAN IS MOST UPSET ABOUT
THE PACE OF SANCTIONS RELEASE.
REMEMBER WHAT IRAN WILL GET IN
RETURN FOR THE WILLINGNESS TO
RESTRICT ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM AND
HAVING BASE INSPECTIONS IS TO BE
LIFTED OUT FROM UNDER THESE
ECONOMIC AND BANKING AND OIL
SANCTIONS THAT HAVE HIT ITS
ECONOMY SO HARD OVER THE LAST
FIVE YEARS.
SO IT WANTS SANCTIONS
IMMEDIATELY AND PERMANENTLY
ESPECIALLY FROM U.N. SANCTIONS
AS WELL AND THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY HAS SAID NO WAY, THAT
THAT WILL BE A PHASED SAGES
RELEASE AND THEY WILL NOT BE
LIFTED, ONLY SUSPENDED SO THEY
CAN BE PUT BACK.
THAT'S ONE THING.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IS
ANOTHER QUESTION AND WHAT
HAPPENS TO AIRN'S PROGRAM AFTER
YEAR TEN, BECAUSE THEY'RE
THINKING ABOUT A TEN-YEAR DEAL.
WHAT HAPPENS BETWEEN 11 AND 15
TO MAKE SURE IRAN DOESN'T BREAK
OUT WITH ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM AND
GO BACK INTO BIG DEVELOPMENT?
>> Woodruff: SO HAVE THEY --
IS IT FELT THEY HAVE AGREED ON
HOW MUCH ENRICHMENT OF URANIUM
THE IRANIANS SHOULD BE ALLOWED
TO DO?
>> YOU KNOW, THE WAY THAT IT'S
BEEN DESCRIBED TO US REPEATEDLY,
AND I THINK THIS IS PRETTY APT,
THE IT'S LIKE A RUBRICS CUBE.
EVERY PIECE HAS TO FIT TOGETHER.
SO YOU COULD HAVE AGREEMENT ON
ONE THING AND THINK THAT YOU'RE
DONE WITH THAT.
AND THAT IS THE CASE WITH THE
STOCKPILES ENRICHED URANIUM
WHICH WE THOUGHT WOULD BE
SHIPPED OUT BY IRAN TO A THIRD
COUNTRY, PROBABLY RUSSIA.
IRAN SAID LAST NIGHT, NO, WE
NEVER AGREED TO THAT.
AND THE STATE DEPARTMENT TODAY
SAID, THAT'S RIGHT, THEY HAD NOT
YET AGREED TO THAT.
SO SEEMS EACH PIECE HAS TO COME
IN PLACE.
BUT WE THINK THERE IS MORE
AGREEMENT ON CENTRIFUGES, MORE
AGREEMENT ON THE IRAQ HEAVY
WATER REACTOR TO STOP IT FROM
PRODUCING PLUTONIUM, BUT THESE
OTHER ISSUES LIKE SANCTIONS AND
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ARE
REALLY BIG AND, SO, IF YOU SORT
OF LIMIT ONE THING THEN YOU CAN
ALLOW A LITTLE MORE IN ANOTHER
AREA.
SO THAT'S WHY IT MATTERS, EVERY
PIECE LIKE A PUZZLE.
>> Woodruff: YOU CALL ATE
FRAMEWORK ACCORD IF THEY REACH
AN AGREEMENT.
IS IT A PIECE OF PAPER, A JOINT
DECLARATION?
WHAT WILL IT LOOK LIKE?
>> THAT'S THE $60,000 QUESTION.
THE UNITED STATES WOULD LIKE TO
HAVE A FEW PAGES LONG OF BULLET
POINTS THAT REALLY LAYS OUT WHAT
IRAN IS GOING TO DO SO THEY CAN
TAKE THAT DOCUMENT TO CONGRESS
AND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AND SAY
THIS IS WHAT WE GOT AGREEMENT
ON.
WE HAVE HEARD THAT IRAN SAYS,
NO, EITHER WE HAVE TO HAVE A
MUCH LONGER DOCUMENT WHICH IS
REALLY NOT POSSIBLE THE TO GET
OR SOMETHING MORE BRIEF LIKE A
DECLARATION.
EITHER WAY, I THINK YOU WILL
STILL SEE THREE MORE MONTHS OF
REALLY INTENSE HAGGLING OVER
EVERY IF, AND OR BUT, EVERY LINE
OF THIS AGREEMENT OF WHICH WE
HAVE BEEN TOLD BY U.S. OFFICIALS
UNTIL THE JUNE 30 DEADLINE FOR
THE FINAL ACCORD.
>> Woodruff: AND STILL MORE
WORK TO BE DONE AFTER THIS.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> Woodruff: INDIRA
LAKSHMANAN, I KNOW YOU WILL BE
WATCHING.
THANK YOU.
"BLOOMBERG NEWS," WE BREECH APPE
IT.
>> THANKS.
>> Woodruff: NIGERIA WAS ON EDGE
TODAY, AWAITING THE OUTCOME OF
THE CLOSEST ELECTION SINCE THE
END OF MILITARY RULE IN 1999.
IT PITTED THE FORMER MILITARY
DICTATOR MUHAMMADU BUHARI
AGAINST INCUMBENT PRESIDENT
GOODLUCK JONATHAN.
WITH THREE-QUARTERS OF THE
COUNTRY'S STATES COUNTED, BUHARI
LED BY TWO MILLION VOTES.
JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS.
>> Brown: HUNDREDS OF WOMEN IN
SOUTHERN NIGERIA WEREN'T WAITING
FOR THE RESULTS.
THEY RALLIED IN PORT HARCOURT,
DEMANDING AN ELECTION DO-OVER.
>> WE NO VOTES!
>> Brown: NIGERIAN TELEVISION
BROADCAST IMAGES OF PROTESTERS
BLOCKING STREETS AND CLAIMING
IRREGULARITIES.
POLICE FIRED TEAR GAS TO BREAK
UP THE RALLY.
THE OPPOSITION PARTY FLATLY
ACCUSED THE RULING PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF RIGGING THE
COUNT.
>> ABSOLUTELY WHAT WE HAVE HERE
IS AN ATTEMPT TO STEAL THE VOTES
OF OUR PEOPLE WITH THE MILITIAS
SET OFF BY THE PARTY TO AVOID
DEMOCRACY.
>> Brown: STILL, TURNOUT WAS
HIGH AND THE VOTING ITSELF
APPEARED TO BE GENERALLY
SMOOTHER THAN IN THE PAST.
>> WE HAVE SEEN NO EVIDENCE OF
SYSTEMIC MANIPULATION OF THE
PROCESS.
"THERE ARE DISTURBING
INDICATIONS THAT THE COLLATION
PROCESS... MAY BE SUBJECT TO
DELIBERATE POLITICAL
INTERFERENCE.
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR
AFRICAN AFFAIRS, LINDA THOMAS-
GREENFIELD, WAS IN THE NIGERIAN
CAPITAL ABUJA TODAY, WATCHING
THE PROCESS.
I SPOKE TO HER A SHORT TIME AGO.
>> WE'RE GETTING A LOT OF CALLS
FROM AROUND THE COUNTRY OF
PEOPLE CONCERNED ABOUT THE
PROCESS AFTER THE ELECTION.
I DON'T THINK I WOULD GO SO FAR
AS SAYING THAT IT'S RIGGING,
BUT, AGAIN, PEOPLE ARE NOTICING
SOME ISSUES AND THEY'RE
REPORTING THE ISSUES AND I THINK
THAT'S THE GOOD THING.
>> Brown: SATURDAY'S ELECTION
WENT AHEAD DESPITE ATTACKS BY
THE ISLAMIST MILITANTS OF BOKO
HARAM IN NORTHEASTERN NIGERIA.
THOUSANDS OF DISPLACED NIGERIANS
LINED UP TO VOTET A A CAMP IN
THE EAST.
>> I'M LONGING FOR A CHANGE, A
POSITIVE CHANGE TO AFFECT THE
LIFE OF HUMANITY, TO PROTECT
THEIR REPUTATION, THEIR LIFE
THEIR PROPERTY, AND TO ERADICATE
CORRUPTION FINALLY, THIS IS WHAT
I'M LONGING AND I'M HOPING FOR.
>> Brown: THERE WERE ALSO
TECHNICAL PROBLEMS THAT CAUSED
OFFICIALS TO EXTEND VOTING IN
PARTS OF THE COUNTRY BY AN EXTRA
DAY.
EVEN THE CANDIDATES RAN INTO
TROUBLE.
PRESIDENT JONATHAN HAD TO WAIT
WHEN AT LEAST THREE BIO-METRIC
IDENTIFICATION READERS FAILED TO
RECOGNIZE HIS FINGERPRINTS.
STILL, HE INSISTED ALL WOULD BE
WELL.
>> I BELIEVE AND I'M CONVINCED
THAT ELECTIONS WILL BE FREE AND
FAIR AND EXTREMELY CREDIBLE.
>> Brown: NOW, THOUGH, AS THE
NATION OF 170 MILLION AWAITS THE
RESULTS, THERE ARE FEARS OF
POST-ELECTION BLOODSHED.
AFTER THE LAST ELECTION IN 2011,
MORE THAN 1000 PEOPLE WERE
KILLED IN SUCH VIOLENCE.
AGAIN, LINDA THOMAS-
GREENFIELD...
>> OF COURSE, WE CAN'T PREDICT
WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN, BUT
WE'RE HOPEFUL THAT IT WILLBE
LESS VIOLENT THAN IN PREVIOUS
ELECTIONS.
>> Brown: FINAL RESULTS IN THE
ELECTION ARE EXPECTED TOMORROW.
>> Woodruff: NOW A CONTROVERSIAL
NEW LAW IN INDIANA THAT PERMITS
BUSINESSES TO REFUSE SERVICE TO
SAME-SEX COUPLES ON RELIGIOUS
GROUNDS, IS MAKING WAVES.
FOR THAT AND MORE WE TURN TO OUR
"POLITICS MONDAY" CHECK-IN.
TONIGHT MARGARET TALEV, THE
WHITE HOUSE AND POLITICS
CORRESPONDENT FOR BLOOMBERG
NEWS, AND SUSAN PAGE, THE
WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF FOR "USA
TODAY," JOIN US.
GREAT TO HAVE BOTH OF YOU.
>> NICE TO BE HERE.
LET'S TALK ABOUT INDIRA INDIANA.
MIKE PENCE, THE GOVERNOR, MADE A
BIG DEAL THAT HE WAS SIGNING
THIS INTO LAW, DEFENDING IT
INCLUDING YESTERDAY ON THE
SUNDAY TALKS SHOWS.
DO YOU THINK HE AND THE PEOPLE
AROUND HIM KNEW WHAT THEY WERE
STIRRING UP?
>> I DON'T THINK SO.
WHAT A TIDAL WAVE THIS CAUSED IS
BUSINESS LEADERS AND UNION
LEADERS AND DEMOCRATS REALLY
TAKING THE GOVERNOR AN STATE OF
INDIANA TO TASK FOR THIS LAW.
IT'S SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT, NOT
SIGNIFICANTLY DIFFERENT FROM A
FEDERAL LAW PASSED IN 1993 FROM
LAWS THAT HAVE BEEN PASSED IN IN
OTHER STATES.
BUT THE TIMING AND SOME OF THE
PROVISIONS OF THE LAW HAVE
BECOME PART OF THE CULTURAL
DEBATE THIS THIS COUNTRY AND
PART OF THE CHANGING ATTITUDES
WE SEE PARDON SAME-SEX MARRIAGE
IN PARTICULAR.
>> Woodruff: IN FACT, YOU
MENTIONED THE PUBLIC ATTITUDE.
LET'S LOOK AT THESE BEFORE I
TURNED TO YOU, MARGARET.
THERE'S A PUGH POLL THAT WAS
DONE.
YOU CAN SEE THIS, THEY POLLED
AMONG YOUNG REPUBLICANS AGED
18-29, 61% FAVOR THE IDEA OF
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE, BUT AMONG
REPUBLICANS OVERALL, 39%,
SIGNIFICANTLY LESS.
WHAT DOES THAT SAY ABOUT WHERE
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY IS, THE
FUTURE OF THE PARTY ON THIS
ISSUE?
>> THIS IS A GENERATIONAL ISSUE
JUST AS AMONG THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY AND INDEPENDENTS.
BUT IT'S INTERESTING, THE
QUESTION FOR MIKE PENCE IS IT'S
GOOD FOR HIM POLITICALLY BURKS
IT MIGHT BE DIFFICULT FOR JEB
BUSH, RAND PAUL, FOR REPUBLICAN
CONSERVATIVES WHO WANT TO APPEAL
TO YOUNG VOTERS OR
VOTERS AND FORCE THEM TO TALK
ABOUT TISSUE AS WELL.
>> Woodruff: HOW MUCH IS THIS
GOING TO BE AN ISSUE, SUSAN?
IT CERTAINLY IS GETTING HUGE
ATTENTION RIGHT NOW.
>> THERE'S NOT A BIG CAN I VIDE
IN THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY.
DEMOCRATS SUPPORT
ANTI-DISCRIMINATION LAWS AND
TEND TO SUPPORT SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE BUT THERE'S A BIG
DIVIDE IN THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
BECAUSE YOU HAVE THE YOUNGER
REPUBLICANS WHO SAY WHAT'S THE
BIG DEAL?
OF COURSE WE SUPPORT SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE BUT A BIG PART OF THE
REPUBLICANS ARE EVANGELICAL
CHRISTIANS AND MANY ARE STRONGLY
OPPOSED TO THE IDEA OF SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE.
THEY'RE CONCERNED ABOUT WHAT
THEY'RE SEEING.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE ARGUMENTS IN
THE SUPREME COURT IN JUST A
COUPLE OF WEEKS OVER WHAT MAY
TURN OUT TO BE A RECOGNITION OF
A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE.
YOU SEE, EVANGELICAL CHRISTIANS
ARE SUCH A POWERFUL FORCE IN THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY BEING
COMPLETELY ALARMED ABOUT THAT.
>> Woodruff: YOU MENTIONED THE
CANDIDATES, MARGARET.
HOW IS IT SEEN THE CANDIDATES
ARE GOING TO DEAL WITH THIS AND
HOW ABOUT MIKE PENCE HIMSELF IN
WHERE DOES HE STAND NOW IN TERMS
OF ANNOUNCING WHETHER EH'S GOING
TO RUN OR NOT?
HE CERTAINLY HAS HINTED AT IT.
>> ABSOLUTELY, AND HE BEANS
MAKING THE ROUNDS AT THE
REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR'S
CONFERENCES AND ALL OR THE R --
ALL SORT OF EVENTS.
HE HAS TO BE MAKING A DECISION
IN THE NEXT SEVERAL WEEKS TO
DECIDE WHETHER TO RUN FOR
ANOTHER TERM FOR GOVERNOR OR
SEEK THE PRESIDENCY.
THE PRIMARY WILL BE A LITMUS
TEST, ESPECIALLY STATE AFTER
STATE, SOMETHING LIKE 20 STATES
NOW, HAVE SOME VERSION OF A LAW
LIKE THIS THAT THEY'VE GOT ON
THE BOOKS.
IT'S THE ACCUMULATION OF THESE
BEFORE THE SUPREME COURT
CONSIDERS THIS.
SO ABSOLUTELY, A 2015 ISSUE.
>> Woodruff: SUSAN, WHAT ABOUT
AMONG THE, SHALL WE SAY, THE
MORE CONSERVATIVE MEMBERS OF THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY THINKING OF
RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT, WHY
AREN'T THEY MORE SEND ABOUT THE
YOUNGER REPUBLICANS WITH
DIFFERENT ATTITUDES?
>> BECAUSE OFF TO GET TO THE
PRIMARY BEFORE THEY CAN THINK
ABOUT MORE GENERAL ELECTION
STRATEGIES AND THEY HAVE TO
THINK ABOUT REPUBLICAN VOTERS, A
LOT OF THEM OLDER, A LOT OF THEM
TEA PARTY CONSERVATIVES,
EVANGELICAL LIKE IN IOWA AND
SOUTH CAROLINA.
I CAN MIKE PENCE DEFENDED THIS
LAW SO POORLY YESTERDAY, HE WAS
ON ONE OF THE SUNDAY SHOW, AND
WAS NOT REALLY RESPONSIVE TO A
SERIES OF QUESTIONS OF THESE
LAWS, THE IMPACT, WOULD IT ALLOW
A TBLORRIST THE RIGHT TO REFUSE
TO MAKE FLOWERS FOR A GAY COUPLE
GETTING PARTICLE MARRIED.
WE PROBABLY WILL HAVE A
CANDIDATE THAT SUPPORTS
RELIGIOUS FREEDOM LAW.
>> Woodruff: HE KEPT TURNING
IT TO STE STEPHANOPOULOS AND SAG
YOU'RE ASKING THE WRONG
QUESTION.
THERE'S QUESTIONS ABOUT THE YET
TO BE ANNOUNCED HILLARY CLINTON
CAMPAIGN FOR PRESIDENT.
TORTING ALL RIGHTING ON THE
THINKING INSIDE THE HILLARY
CLINTON ABOUT THE ROLE OF FORMER
PRESIDENT BILL CLINTON.
EVERYBODY'S GOING TO BE ASKING
WHAT IS BILL CLINTON GOING TO BE
DOING.
OF COURSE, WE GOT A LITTLE TASTE
OF THAT IN 2008 WHEN SHE RAN THE
LAST TIME.
IS IT SEEN THAT HE'S A PLUS, A
MINUS, BOTH IS THIS.
>> HE'S A PLUS WHEN HE'S A PLUS,
BUT WHEN HE'S A MINUS, MAN, HE
CAN REALLY BE A MINUS.
THE CONCERN FOR THE SOON-TO
BE-ANNOUNCED CLINTON CAMPAIGN IS
TWOFOLD, ONE WILL HE STEP ON HER
MESSAGE AND CONTRADICT HER AND,
TWO, WILL HE OVERSHADOW HER?
IT'S ON BOTH OF THOSE.
I THINK WE'LL SEE AN EFFORT TO
COORDINATE THE MESSAGE BETWEEN
HIS AND MER STAFFERS ASSUMING
THIS GOES FORWARD AND TRYING TO
GET HIM ALWAYS BEHIND THE SCENES
TO HELP HER GET THINGS OUT AND
BE SELECTIVE WHEN HE'S OUT IN
FRONT.
>> Woodruff: THEY'RE SPENDING
A LOT OF TIME THINKING ABOUT IT.
>> IF THEY'RE THINKING ABOUT HOW
TO CONTROL BILL CLINTON, GOOD
LUCK.
>> Woodruff: HE IS A GUY WHO
WILL DEFY BEING CROVMENTD HE
WANTS TO BE HELPFUL.
HE SUPPORTS HIS WIFE AND IS VERY
MUCH A DEFENDER OF HER, BUT THE
IDEA THEY CAN PREVENT HIM FROM
SAYING WHAT HE WANTS, WE'LL SEE.
>> Woodruff: WE SAW NITO
EIGHT, BUT THIS TIME IT IS HARD
TO IMAGINE HIM PLAYING THE
NUMBER TWO ROLE.
>> 65% APPROVAL RATING, MARGARET
LOOKED IT UP BEFORE THE SHOW,
THAT'S BETTER THAN, YOU KNOW,
HILLARY CLINTON OR BARACK
OBAMA --
>> HIS RATINGS.
>> Woodruff: IT'S HIGHER THAN
ANY OTHER POLITICIAN RUNNING.
THE OTHER IS WHAT AN EFFECTIVE
CAMPAIGNER HE IS.
HOW GREAT IS HE AT EXPLAINING
COMPLICATED THINGS AS WE SAW AT
THE DEMOCRATIC --
>> JUDY, THE FLIP SIDE TO LOOK
FOR IN THE CAMPAIGN, HOW MANY
REPORTERS GET ATTACHED TO THE
BILL CLINTON BECAUSE IF THERE IS
COVERAGE FOR BILL CLINTON, IT
WILL BE DIFFICULT FOR THEM TO
CONTROL THE MESSAGE ABOUT HIM.
>> Woodruff: I CAN'T BELIEVE
THE PRESS WON'T WANT TO COVER
HIM.
MARGARET TALEV, SUSAN PAGE,
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, RESEARCH
SHOWS THAT MILLENNIALS, YOUNG
PEOPLE BETWEEN 18 AND 35,
COMPARED TO THEIR PARENTS, ARE
MORE RACIALLY DIVERSE AND MORE
ACCEPTING OF OTHER RACES.
MANY WERE SURPRISED AND UPSET BY
THE UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA
STUDENTS CAUGHT MAKING RACIST
CHANTS ON VIDEO.
HARI SREENIVASAN WANTED TO LEARN
MORE ABOUT RACIAL BIAS AMONG
MILLENNIALS, AND HE BRINGS US A
STORY ABOUT HIS VISIT TO A
RESEARCH LAB FOCUSED ON RACE.
HIS REPORT IS ANOTHER
INSTALLMENT IN OUR SERIES "RACE
TODAY."
>> I BELIEVE THAT THERE IS LESS
RACISM IN THIS PARTICULAR
GENERATION.
>> Sreenivasan: MANY MILLENNIALS
WERE SHOCKED THIS MONTH BY THE
BLATANT RACISM SHOWN IN THIS
VIRAL VIDEO, COMING FROM PEOPLE
THEIR OWN AGE.
>> IN NO WAY SHAPE OR FORM
SHOULD THAT VIDEO REPRESENT MY
GENERATION AS A WHOLE.
PART OF MY GENERATION IS BY NO
MEANS IS RACIST, BY NO MEANS
HOUSES PREJUDICES, AND AT LEAST
YOU KNOW IF THEY DO CARRY
STEREOTYPES WITH THEM, ARE
INTELLIGENT ENOUGH NOT TO VOICE
THEM TO ANYBODY.
>> I FEEL THAT OUR GENERATION IS
LESS RACIST, DUE TO EXPOSURE OF
EVENTS AND SOCIAL MEDIA AND ON
TV.
AND LIKE WORD IS SPREADING AND
PEOPLE ARE BECOMING MORE
CONSCIOUS TO RACISM AND TRYING
TO MAKE A CHANGE.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT IT'S NOT
ALWAYS THAT SIMPLE.
AND MILLENNIALS THEMSELVES WILL
BE THE FIRST TO ADMIT IT.
>> THERE IS LESS RACISM BUT THE
RACISM THAT DOES STILL PERVADE
EVERYDAY INTERACTIONS WITH
PEOPLE.
IT'S SO MUCH MORE SUBTLE AND
QUIET.
IT'S ALMOST LIKE. 'I DON'LIKET
BLACK PEOPLE.' -
'OH HEY!
SHAQUAN!
HOW ARE YA!?
WELCOME TO THE OFFICE!'
>> Sreenivasan: A 2010 REPORT BY
THE PEW RESEARCH CENTER NOTED
THAT THE MILLENNIAL GENERATION
(AGES 18-29) WAS MORE RACIALLY
DIVERSE, BETTER EDUCATED, AND
SEEN AS MORE RACIALLY TOLERANT
THAN THEIR PARENTS AND
GRANDPARENTS.
BUT WHILE MILLENNIALS ARE MORE
LIKELY TO SAY THEY'RE NOT RACIST
OR USE RACISTS EXPRESSIONS, SOME
PSYCHOLOGISTS SAY THAT THEY
OFTEN SHOW THE SAME SUBCONSCIOUS
PREJUDICES AS THEIR PARENTS.
DAVID AMODIO, A PSYCHOLOGIST AT
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY, STUDIES
RACIAL BIASES.
>> IF YOU'RE AN AMERICAN, YOU'RE
EXPOSED TO SIMILAR CULTURE,
SIMILAR INFORMATION IN THE
MEDIA, SIMILAR SOCIAL
STRUCTURES.
AND IT SEEMS THAT ALL OF THOSE
INFLUENCES COME INTO THE MIND.
YOU COULD BE PASSIVE AND THESE
THINGS WILL COME IN.
MEMORY IS KIND OF LIKE A SPONGE.
AND IT GETS INTO YOUR MIND.
ONCE IT'S THERE, IT MIGHT COME
OUT.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN THESE
PREJUDICES SOAK UP IN THE MIND,
THEY'RE WHAT PSYCHOLOGISTS CALL
IMPL BTHOUGHTS THAT SHAPE OUR A.
THEY ARE HARDER TO OBSERVE AND
STUDY THAN EXPLICIT BIASESLIKE,
A RACIST CHANT ON A BUS.
SO AMODIO TESTS SUBJECTS BY
FORCING THEM TO ACT ON INSTINCT,
TO MAKE QUICK RACIAL JUDGMENTS
IN A CONTROLLED SETTING.
IT IS A WAY TO SEE JUST WHAT HAS
BEEN SOAKED UP IN THAT MENTAL
SPONGE, REGARDLESS OF
GENERATION.
I DECIDED TO GIVE IT A TRY.
>> Sreenivasan: OK.
SO 'UNPLEASANT' OR 'WHITE',
LEFT, 'PLEASANT' OR 'BLACK',
RIGHT.
OK, NO PROBLEM.
FIRST I TOOK THE I.A.T. OR
IMPLICIT ASSOCIATION TEST, WHICH
IS FREELY AVAILABLE ONLINE.
IT MEASURES HOW QUICKLY I
ASSOCIATE POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE
WORDS WITH SKIN COLOR.
THEN I WENT THROUGH A MORE
DIFFICULT EXAM.
IN THIS TEST, I HAD UNDER A
SECOND TO DECIDE WHETHER OR NOT
TO SHOOT THE PERSON THAT FLASHED
ON SCREEN- BASED ON JUST ONE
THING- WHETHER OR NOT THEY WERE
HOLDING A GUN.
SOMETIMES THE MEN WERE WHITE,
SOMETIMES THEY WERE BLACK.
I'M KILLING INNOCENT PEOPLE LEFT
AND RIGHT!
OH MAN!
YOU KNOW I AM TRYING REALLY HARD
TO FIGURE OUT WHERE THE PERSON'S
HAND IS.
BUT MORE OFTEN THAN NOT, IF I DO
IT FAST ENOUGH, THE ONLY THING
I'M REGISTERING IS THE PERSON'S
RACE.
AND THAT'S NOT A VERY GOOD
DECISION-MAKING PROCESS.
>> SO YOU EXPERIENCE THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: COMPUTERS IN THE
NEXT ROOM TRACKED EXACTLY WHERE
MY EYES WERE LOOKING ON SCREEN
TO MEASURE WHAT I ACTUALLY SAW
BEFORE PULLING THE TRIGGER- OR
DECIDING NOT TO.
ALMOST ALL PARTICIPANTS, OUT OF
INSTINCT, LOOK FIRST TO A
PERSOS FAN'CE BEFORE SEEING
WHAT'S IN THEIR HAND.
>> THEY GO TO THE FACE.
THEY GET DOWN TOWARD THE HAND.
BUT THIS IS THE DECISION POINT.
THESOY'RE STILL MAKING A
DECISION, AND I DON'T KNOW IF IT
WAS TO SHOOT OR NOT ON THIS
TRIAL, BUT THEY'RE MAKING A
DECISION BEFORE THEY EVEN GET
RIGHT ON TO THE OBJECT.
BEFORE THEY FIXATE ON THE OBJECT
ITSELF.
>> Sreenivasan: SO THEY'RE
DECIDING TO SHOOT BEFORE THEY
EVEN SEE THE GUN.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: OR THE WALLET.
>> THAT'S WHAT WE FIND.
>> Sreenivasan: WE'LL GET TO MY
FINDINGS IN A MINUTE.
OTHER TESTS TRACK, IN REAL TIME
EXACTLY WHAT PARTS OF E BRTHAIN
ARE ACTIVATED WHEN MAKING THESE
RACE-BASED DECISIONS.
SO WHY DOES THIS MATTER?
RESEARCH FINDS THAT IMPLICIT
BIASES ARE NOT JUST AN ISSUE
BETWEEN WHITES, AND BLACKS, IT
EXISTS AMONG ALL RACES.
IN THE REAL WORLD, THESE BIASES
PLAY OUT IN COURTROOMS WHERE
JURORS HAVE IMPLICIT BIASES
AGAINST DEFENDANTS, AND WITH
DOCTORS AND WHAT TREATMENTS THEY
PRESCRIBE THEIR PATIENTS.
>> WHEN YOU LOOK AROUND YOU SEE
PEOPLE FROM ALL DIFFERENT
BACKGROUNDS, YOU HAVE NO IDEA
WHERE THEY'RE FROM REALLY OR
WHAT THEY'RE THINKING OR WHAT
THEY'RE DOING HERE.
BUT WE CATEGORIZE THEM
INSTANTLY.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW MUCH OF IT
IS HUMAN INSTINCT, HUMAN NATURE
TO MAKE THAT DECISION?
RIGHT NOW I'M NOT THREATENED BY
THESE DOGS THAT ARE RIGHT BEHIND
US, BUT SOME PART OF ME AS A
HUMAN BEING LOOKS OUT AT A
STREET AND SAYS, 'AM I
THREATENED BY THAT PERSON OR AM
I NOT?'
IT'S KIND OF A SURVIVAL
INSTINCT.
>> IT IS.
THIS IS GOING ON IN THE BACK OF
YOUR MIND ALL THE TIME.
YOU HAVE TO- AS A HUMAN BEING TO
SURVIVE YOU HAVE TO BE READY FOR
ANYTHING AT ANY MOMENT.
SO IT'S ALWAYS THERE.
IT'S JUST A MATTER OF TRYING TO
STAY FOCUSED AND TREATING PEOPLE
LIKE HUMANS.
>> Sreenivasan: AND IN THIS
INCREASINGLY VIRTUAL WORLD, OUR
BIASES, EXPLICIT AND IMPLICIT
FOLLOW US ONLINE, WHERE MANY
MILLENNIALS SPEND MUCH OF THEIR
TIME
>> RACISM IS A THING, SEXISM IS
A THING, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER
IT'S ONLINE OR OFFLINE.
>> Sreenivasan: CHRISTIAN RUDDER
WAS ONE OF THE COFOUNDERS OF
okcupid, AN ONLINE DATING SITE
THAT WAS BOUGHT BY match.com.
HE ALSO AUTHORED DATACLYSM, A
BOOK THAT DIVES DEEP INTO THE
HUMAN MIND USING BIG DATA TO
OBSERVE, AMONG OTHER THINGS, HOW
PEOPLE FOUND THEIR MATES.
AND THERE ARE CLEAR PATTERNS
WHEN ANALYZING HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF HETEROSEXUAL
PROFILES, INCLUDING THOSE OF
MILLENNIALS.
THERE WERE THREE INTERESTING
FINDINGS.
ALL RACES WERE LIKELY TO SELECT
THEIR OWN.
ALL WOMEN REGARDLESS OF RACE HAD
PREFERENCE FOR WHITE MALES.
ALL NON-BLACK PROFILES, BOTH MEN
AND WOMEN HAD A STATISTICAL
DISLIKE OF BLACK PROFILES.
>> IN DATING, YOU JUDGE PEOPLE
REFLEXIVELY, THE SAME WAY YOU
MIGHT IN A JOB INTERVIEW, OR A
LOAN INTERVIEW, OR SUBLETTING AN
APARTMENT, IT'S VERY MUCH THE
DATA OF THE FIRST IMPRESSION.
>> LIKE I HAVE PIERCINGS.
PEOPLE JUDGE ME BASED ON THAT.
THEY THINK THAT YOU KNOW OH I'M
A PUNK, OR I DON'T HAVE A JOB,
OR I'M YOUNG.
>> I MEAN EVERYONE HAS, YOU
KNOW...
>> STEREOTYPES.
>> YEA EVERYONE HAS STEREOTYPES.
EVERYONE DOES.
>> Sreenivasan: SIMILAR TO THE
WORDS IN THE HIT BROADWAY
MUSICAL "AVENUE Q..."
>> EVERYONE'S A LITTLE BIT
RACIST.
IT'S TRUE.
>> Sreenivasan: ...INCLUDING, IT
TURNS OUT, ME.
INTERESTINGLY ENOUGH, AMODIO'S
FIRST TEST RESULTS FOUND THAT MY
SENTIMENTS ACTUALLY SHOWED A
SLIGHT PREFERENCE TOWARD BLACK
FACES, THAT I HAD NO PROBLEM
ASSOCIATING POSITIVE WORDS WITH
DARKER SKIN.
THAT'S NOT THE NORM, MORE THAN
HALF THE POPULATION WHO HAVE
TAKEN THE EXAM FIND TAKE LESS
TIME TO PUT NEGATIVE WORDS NEXT
TO BLACK FACES.
SO I'M SHOWING A PREFERENCE IN
ONE WAY OR ANOTHER ACCORDING TO
THE TEST. IT'S JUST NOT THE WAY
THAT 51% ARE SHOWING IT, RIGHT?
>> YEA, THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT THIS IS
WHERE IT GETS INTERESTING.
IN THE SECOND TEST WHERE I HAD
TO REACT ALMOST ON INSTINCT AND
DECIDE WHETHER TO SHOOT OR NOT
BASED ON WHAT I THOUGHT IN
SOMEONE'S HAND, I WAS FASTER AT
SHOOTING ARMED BLACKS THAN ARMED
WHITES AND I WAS FAR MORE LIKELY
TO SHOOT AN UNARMED BLACK MAN
THAN AN UNARMED WHITE ONE.
SADLY, THAT IS THE NATIONAL
NORM, INCLUDING FOR MILLENNIALS.
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M  HARI
SREENIVASAN REPORTING FROM NEW
YORK.
>> Woodruff: FOR MORE ON OUR
SERIES "RACE TODAY," PLEASE
VISIT OUR HOMEPAGE,
pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: NOW, A DEEP AND
UNIQUE LOOK AT THE HISTORY OF
CANCER, AND THE BATTLES TO END
IT OR SLOW IT.
IT'S THE FOCUS OF A THREE-NIGHT
DOCUMENTARY ON PBS THAT STARTS
TONIGHT AND CONTINUES THROUGH
WEDNESDAY CALLED "THE EMPEROR OF
ALL MALADIES."
IT'S PRODUCED BY KEN BURNS AND
BASED ON THE BOOK OF THE SAME
NAME BY DOCTOR SIDDHARTHA
MUKHERJEE.
FIRST, AN EXCERPT FROM TONIGHT'S
EPISODE.
IT'S ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED TO
OLIVIA BLAIR, A TODDLER
DIAGNOSED WITH AN ACUTE TYPE OF
LEUKEMIA THAT HAS SPREAD TO HER
BRAIN AND SPINAL COLUMN.
THE FILM FOLLOWS HER AS SHE AND
HER PARENTS STRUGGLE WITH
DIFFICULT DECISIONS, INCLUDING
THIS MOMENT WHEN DOCTORS DISCUSS
THE OPTION OF RADIATION TO HER
BRAIN.
>> SO, OBVIOUSLY, THE QUESTION
IS WHAT DOES THIS MEAN.
>> WELL, I'M AUTOMATICALLY
THINKING THAT THE LEUKEMIA IS IN
HER SPINE, IN HER BRAIN.
IT'S MORE SERIOUS, IT'S HIGH
RISK.
>> WHAT THAT MEANS IS HER
THERAPY WILL BE MORE INTENSE,
THAT SHE WILL GET EXTRA
CHEMOTHERAPY AND WE ALSO WILL
RECOMMEND THAT SHE GETS SPINE
RADIATION AND RADIATION TO THE
BRAIN.
>> I DON'T WANT TO DO RADIATION.
KNOW.
SO --
>> WHY ARE WE DOING THAT?
BECAUSE WE KNOW THAT
RADIATION WILL TREAT IT.
BUT WE KNOW THAT THE RADIATION
THERAPY COULD POTENTIALLY HAVE
AFFECTS ON HER COGNITIVE
ABILITIES GOING FORWARD.
>> I JUST...
COME ON.
YOU'RE RIGHT.
>> WE GAVE YOU THE SCENARIOS
YESTERDAY.
>> SHE'S A SMART CHILD.
IS AND SHE WILL CONTINUE
TO BE SMART.
SHE HAS ME AND YOU AS PARENTS.
>> SHE WON'T SEE ME LIKE THIS,
BUT --
>> I KNOW.
NEED TO GET THIS OUT.
SHE IS AN EXTREMELY SMART
CHILD.
>> HOW IS THIS GOING TO AFFECT
HER?
YOU DON'T KNOW, RIGHT?
>> RIGHT.
IF OLIVIA WAS 7 YEARS OLD, WE
WOULD NOT HAVE A BIG PROBLEM
RADIATING HER BRAIN.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT BECAUSE
SHE'S 17 MONTHS, HER BRAIN IS
NOT FULLY DEVELOPED.
IT'S ALMOST THERE BUT NOT FULLY
DEVELOPED.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS WE'RE VERY
RIWORRIED ABOUT AND THINKING
ABOUT FOR OLIVIA IS THE ROLE OF
RADIATION THERAPY.
>> Reporter:
>> Woodruff: I SAT DOWN RECENTLY
WITH KEN BURNS, THE EXECUTIVE
PRODUCER AND CO-WRITER OF THE
FILM, AND WITH DR. MUKHERJEE,
THE BOOK'S AUTHOR, WHO IS ALSO
AN ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF
MEDICINE AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY.
KEN BURNS, DR. SIDDHARTHA
MUKHERJEE, THANK YOU VERY MUCH
FOR BEING HERE.
AS WE SEE FROM THAT CLIP, THERE
ARE MOMENTS IN THIS PROGRAM THAT
ARE VERY, VERY DIFFICULT TO
WATCH.
LET ME ASK YOU FIRST, THOUGH,
ABOUT WHY YOU CALLED EMPEROR OF
MALADIES.
HOW DID YOU COME UP WITH THAT?
>> IT'S FROM A NOTE I FOUND IN A
SURGEON'S WRITINGS.
I FOUND IT POETIC THAT THERE IS
AN EMPIRE OF DISEASE AND WE ARE
CITIZENS OF THAT EMPIRE AND, YOU
KNOW, OUR STRUGGLE AGAINST
CANCER IS A RESISTANCE MOVEMENT.
SO THERE ARE LOTS OF METAPHORS I
THOUGHT WORKED AND I WANTED A
TITLE THAT TOOK IS BACKWARDS IN
TIME AND TALKED ABOUT SORT OF,
YOU KNOW, WHAT IS IT LIKE
INHABITING THIS EMPIRE, IF YOU
WILL?
IT IS MOSTLY POETIC IDEAS THAT I
TRY TO BRING TO THIS HISTORY.
>> Woodruff: IT IS A
RESISTANCE.
THERE'S A RESISTANCE MOVEMENT,
KEN BURNS, THAT'S GOING ON.
THIS IS AN HISTORICAL
DOCUMENTARY, IT'S ABOUT THE
SCIENCE, BUT IT'S ALSO VERY
MUCH, OF COURSE, ABOUT THE
PEOPLE, THE PATIENTS AND THEIR
FAMILIES, AND WE SAW THAT.
>> I THINK THAT'S THE IMPORTANT
PART.
IT IS A VERY, VERY COMPLICATED
AND FASCINATING HISTORY ACROSS
ALL OF HUMAN HISTORY BECAUSE THE
DISEASE HAS BEEN WITH US AS LONG
AS WE HAVE BEEN HERE AS HUMAN
BEINGS AND IT'S ALSO A VERY
INTERESTING SCIENCE, A KIND OF
C.S.I. OF DISCOVERY AND
INVESTIGATION, OF DISAPPOINTMENT
AND SERENDIPITY OF MISTAKES
TURNING INTO GREAT DISCOVERIES,
BUT ANCHORING IT ALL IS THE FACT
THIS IS STILL A HUMAN EQUATION
AND, TOO OFTEN IN OUR LARGER
POLITICAL DISCUSSION, EVEN THE
PERSONAL ONES ABOUT CANCER,
WE'VE LEFT OUT THE AGENCY OF
PATIENTS AND WE'VE TRIED TO IN
THIS FILM RETURN THAT AGENCY TO
THEM.
BUT THESE ARE VERY TOUGH
DECISIONS.
YOU SEE PARENTS WORRYING ABOUT A
17-MONTH-OLD GIRL, WONDERING
WHAT THE RADIATION IS GOING TO
DO TO HER, AND WE'RE THERE.
WE UNDERSTAND EXACTLY THOSE
DYNAMICS.
AND BECAUSE EITHER ONE OF US
WILL GET CARNES OR YOU AND JUDY
AND MARGARET WILL GET CANCER IN
YOUR LIFETIME, THESE ARE
IMPOSSIBLE ODDS TO CONSIDER, YET
WE DON'T TALK ABOUT IT.
I THINK WHAT SID'S BOOKS HAVE
DONE IS BRING IT TO THE FORE AND
SAY IT IS THE EMPEROR AND WE ARE
ENTITLED TO BE A PART OF THE
RESISTANCE MOVEMENT.
>> Woodruff: THERE ARE MOMENTS
OF BREAKTHROUGH IN THE STORY.
YES, THERE ARE GRINDINGLY
DEPRESSING PARTS OF IT, BUT YOU
CELEBRATE THE MOMENTS WHEN
SCIENCE HAS MADE A DIFFERENCE,
AND THE WHOLE PICTURE IS THERE.
>> THERE ARE EPIC MOMENTS OF
BREAKTHROUGH.
I MEAN, THE EPIC MOMENTS OF
BREAKTHROUGH COME THROUGHOUT THE
FILM.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO REALIZE THAT
YOU HAVE TO GO THROUGH GRINDING
MOMENTS INTO THE MOMENTS OF
DISCOVERY.
THEY ARE PART AND PARCEL OF THE
SAME THING.
YOU DON'T GET THE DISCOVERIES
FOR CHEAP 6789 THIS I.
THIS IS A PROFOUNDLY HUMAN
STORY.
THE DISCOVERIES ARE SO EPIC.
I WOULD SAY THEY RANK AMONG THE
GREAT DISCOVERIES OF HUMAN
HISTORY, EVEN OUTSIDE SCIENCE
ITSELF.
SO WE WANTED YOU, WE WANTED
VIEWERS TO FEEL THEM, AND YOU
DON'T FEEL THE DISCOVERY, I
THINK, UNLESS YOU LIVE THROUGH
THE GRIND OF THAT DISCOVER.
YOU'RE NOT BROUGHT TO THAT.
HERET'S A CATHARSIS THAT
HAPPENS.
IT'S A DETECTIVE STORY, BUT
YOU'VE GOT TO WATCH THE WHOLE --
YOU KNOW, THE WHOLE THING PLAY
ITSELF OUT.
>> Woodruff: YOU DO COME AWAY,
KEN BURNS, HUMBLED BY THIS
DISEASE BECAUSE AFTER ALL THE
MONEY, AFTER ALL THE EFFORT,
IT'S BEEN CENTURIES SINCE THEY
FIGURED OUT IT WASN'T BLACK BILE
CAUSING CANCER AND A LOT OF
SMART PEOPLE HAVE BEEN TRYING
EVER SINCE THEN TO FIGURE IT
OUT, BUT IT'S STILL WINNING IN
MANY WAYS.
>> IT IS INDEED AND IT IS WILEY
AND CRAFTY, A KIND OF ELEGANT
VERSIONS OF OURSELVES THAT IS
DESTROYING OURSELVES, SO YEAH,
WE ARE HUMBLED BY THE STORY THAT
WE'VE TRIED TO RETELL.
IT IS ONE IN WHICH WE'RE SAYING
THERE ARE THESE WONDERFUL
MOMENTS OF DISCOVERY AND IT
SEEMS TO BEN A AHA MOMENT.
THE WORD CURE IS PUT FORTH, THEN
REALITY COMES IN, AND YOU HAVE
ANOTHER MOMENT, AND IT'S AN
INSPIRATION AND EXHALATION AS WE
MOVE CLOSER AND CLOSER.
BUT THE CUMULATIVE STORY IS OF
HOPE.
WE ARE GETTING CLOSER.
WE KNOW SO MUCH MORE THAN EVEN
30 YEARS AGO, EVEN 10 YEARS AGO,
AND WHEN YOU REALIZE THAT, THEN
THE LIVES WILL CONTINUE TO BE
LOST, THIS WILL BE DEADLY, THIS
WILL BE THIS EMPEROR.
WE ARE MOVING FORWARD AND WE CAN
SEE A HORIZON IN THE
NOT-TOO-DISTANT FUTURE IN WHICH
SO MANY OF THE CANCERS LIKE A
FEW NOW ARE MERELY CHRONIC.
>> Woodruff: OFF DOCTOR AT THE
VERY BEGINNING SAYING THE NEXT
20 YEARS IS GOING TO BE THE AGE
OF DISCOVERY AND END ON A
HOPEFUL NOTE ABOUT
IMMUNOTHERAPY.
>> ABSOLUTELY AND ALREADY
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF MEN,
WOMEN AND CHILDREN ARE BEING
CURED AND TREATED IN VERY
EFFECTIVE WAYS BECAUSE TO HAVE
THE DISCOVERIES THAT HAVE
HAPPENED IN THE LAST TEN YEARS.
SO OUR GENERAL APPROACH IS
YOU'VE GOT TO KNOW THIS STORY
FOR YOUR OWN SAKE, OTHERWISE,
YOU KNOW, IT'S GOING TO BECOME
PART OF YOUR OWN STORY.
IT'S GOING TO INTERSECT WITH
YOUR LIFE.
SO WE HAVE TO ANTICIPATE THAT
INTERSECTION AND YOU'VE GOT TO
KNOW IT.
THIS IS A KIND OF APP STATE OF
THE WORLD REPORT ON CANCER AND
YOU'VE GOT TO KNOW IT BECAUSE
IT'S GOING TO COME INTO YOUR
LIFE WHETHER YOU WANT IT TO OR
NOT.
>> Woodruff: WE SHOULD POINT
OUT AND I WANT TO END WITH THIS,
YOU BOTH COME TO THIS WITH YOUR
OWN PERSONAL EXPERIENCE.
KEN, IT IS YOUR MOTHER.
>> JUDY, I WOULD NOT BE SITTING
HERE.
MY MOTHER DIED WHEN I WAS 11.
SHE WAS SICK TEN YEARS BEFORE
THAT.
THERE WASN'T A MOMENT GROWING UP
AND I WASN'T AWARE OF HER
IMPENDING DEATH AND I SPENT MY
LIFE TRYING TO WAKE THE DEAD AND
HAVE A CONVERSATION WITH THE
PAST AND THIS IS IN SOME WAY A
CONNUATTIION OF A CONVERSATION
WITH A WOMAN THAT'S BEEN
INTERRUPTED FOR YEARS.
>> Woodruff: FOR YOU IT WAS A
PATIENT.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
FOR ME, IT BEGINS WITH A WOMAN
ASKING ME I WANT TO KNOW WHERE
WE'RE GOING AND, IN A SENSE, KEN
BURNS AND THIS DOCUMENTARY
ALLOWS US TO TELL THE STORY FOR
EVERYONE WHICH IS TO SAY, WHERE
ARE WE GOING, HOW DO WE GET HERE
AND WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
>> Woodruff: AND YOU'RE ASKED
QUESTIONS LIKE THAT.
PATIENTS, THEY WANT A FINAL --
THEY WANT AN EXPLANATION THAT
THEY CAN TAKE HOME.
>> AND THE POINT IS IT'S NOT
GOING TO BE A ONE-LINE, ONE-WORD
EXPLANATION.
YOU HAVE TO KNOW THE FULL
HISTORY, I THINK TO, PREERPT WHY
WE'RE HERE TODAY AND WHAT'S
HAPPENING NEXT.
I THINK, YOU KNOW, WITH KEN'S
HELP, I WAS THINKING YOU DID AN
AMAZING JOB WITH THE CIVIL WAR
BUT THIS IS A CIVIL WAR IN YOUR
BODY.
IF YOU WANT TO BE A CITIZEN OF
THIS WAR, YOU HAVE TO KNOW THE
HISTORY OF THIS WAR TO BE WHO
YOU ARE.
>> Woodruff: DR. SIDDHARTHA
MUKHERJEE, KEN BURNS, "THE
EMPEROR OF ALL MALADIES."
A GIFT TO ALL OF US.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN WATCH MORE
OF OUR CONVERSATION ON ADAPTING
CANCER FROM PAGE TO SCREEN ON
OUR HOMEPAGE, pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, A
CONVERSATION ABOUT AN OUT OF
THIS WORLD EXPERIENCE: LIVING IN
SPACE.
ASTRONAUT SCOTT KELLY ARRIVED
THIS WEEKEND AT THE
INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION.
HE'LL STAY THERE FOR ALMOST A
YEAR, THE LONGEST DURATION AN
AMERICAN HAS EVER SPENT IN
SPACE.
HE'S THE IDENTICAL TWIN BROTHER
OF FORMER ASTRONAUT MARK KELLY.
AND BOTH WILL PARTICIPATE IN A
STUDY TO SEE THE EFFECTS OF
LIVING IN SPACE.
JEFFREY BROWN SPOKE AFTER SCOTT
KELLY LIFTED OFF ON FRIDAY WITH
A FORMER ASTRONAUT, CHRIS
HADFIELD, WHOSE FINAL STAY ON
THE SPACE STATION LASTED FIVE
MONTHS.
>> Brown: CHRIS HADFIELD,
WELCOME TO YOU.
THE TWIN STUDY IS ESPECIALLY
INTERESTING THIS TIME, RIGHT,
THE RESEARCH ON THE TWO
BROTHERS, SCOTT AND MARK KELLY,
ONE IN SPACE, ONE ON THE GOUNDR.
WHAT KINDS OVERTHINGS ARE BEING
LOOKED AT?
>> SOUNDS LIKE SCIENCE FICTION
TO HAVE AN IDENTICAL TWIN ON A
SPACE SHIP AND ANOTHER ONE ON
THE GROUND.
IT'S JUST LUCK BUT, BOY, IT SURE
PROVIDES SOME INTERESTING
MEDICAL AND SCIENTIFIC
OPPORTUNITY.
YOU TAKE TWO PEOPLE THAT ARE AS
IDENTICAL AS THEY CAN BE, YOU
PUT THEM IN WILDLY DIFFERENT
ENVIRONMENTS, ONE OF THEM THAT
IS REALLY BRAND-NEW FOR
HUMANITY, LIVING IN
WEIGHTLESSNESS OFF THE PLANET,
THEN YOU WATCH HOW THEY CHANGE
OVER A YEAR.
YOU MEASURE ALL OF SUBTLE
THINGS -- BONE DENSITY,
PSYCHOLOGY, VISION, BLOOD
PRESSURE, LIVER FUNCTION,
EVERYTHING -- AND IT IS REALLY
GOING TO HELP US NOT ONLY
UNDERSTAND SPACE FLIGHT FOR
LONG-TERM FLIGHT, FOR GOING FROM
HERE TO THE MOON AND MARS AND
BEYOND, BUT ALSO JUST UNDERSTAND
THE EFFECTS ON THE BODY OF
FLIGHT ITSELF, THE SUBTLE
CHANGES THAT HAPPEN WITHIN THE
BODY AND TEACH US INHERENTLY
ABOUT PHYSIOLOGY.
IT'S COOL.
IT'S NEVER BEEN DONE BEFORE.
>> Brown: THIS WILL BE TWICE
AS LONG THAN ANY AMERICAN UP TO
THIS POINT.
WHY GO LONGER, AND LET'S START
TO TALK ABOUT THE NEW
DIFFICULTIES THAT PRESENTS IN
STAYING UP THAT LONG.
>> I THINK THE BIG DIFFERENCE,
JEFF, IS WE'RE NOW GOING FROM
PROBING SPACE TO MOVING AWAY
FROM EARTH, SO COLONIZING SPACE,
TO LEAVING EARTH PERMANENTLY.
THIS IS ONE OF THOSE MAJOR
STEPS.
NOT JUST A ONE WEEK OR TWO
WEEK-LONG FLIGHT OR A QUICK
FORAY TO THE MOON TO SEE IF WE
CAN DO IT BUT A LONG-TERM MOVE
AWAY FROM THE PLANET AND SEEING
HOW WE DO ALL THINGS.
THERE IS A LOT TO LEARN.
THERE IS A HUGE SUITE OF THINGS
STRAIGHT FROM HUMAN
PHYSIOLOGY -- WHAT SORT OF
EXERCISE EQUIPMENT DO WE NEED?
HOW DO YOU KEEP SOMEONE PSYCH
LODGE CAN I HEALTHY FOR THAT
LENGTH OF TIME AWAY THERE THE
WORLD?
WHAT'S THE RIGHT TYPE OF PERSON
TO GO TO THE MOON AND LIVE ON
THE MOON OR TO MARS?
ALL THOSE QUESTIONS ARE GOING TO
GET DISCUSSED AND LOOKED AT.
>> Brown: WELL, YOU KNOW,
SCOTT KELLY HAS TALKED ABOUT HIS
FAMILY, TALKED ABOUT HE HAS A
20-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER IN COLLEGE,
A LOVE OF NATURE, TALKS ABOUT
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL ISSUES.
WHAT WERE THE HARDEST PARTS FOR
YOU?
START WITH THE PSYCHOLOGY OF IT
TO KEEP FROM BOREDOM,
DEPRESSION?
WHAT KINDS OF THINGS DID YOU
EXPERIENCE?
>> WHEN WE FIRST STARTED
COOPERATING WITH THE RUSSIANS
AND SENDING ASTRONAUTS TO MIR,
ONE OF THE REAL PROBLEMS WAS
THEY DIDN'T HAVE A FULL PLATE OF
ACTIVITIES EVERY DAY.
WE HADN'T HAD TIME TO GET A FULL
SCIENTIFIC PROGRAM FOR THEM AND,
SO, IT WAS REALLY TOUGH
PSYCHOLOGICALLY.
THEY DIDN'T FEEL THERE WAS
PURPOSE TO WHAT THEY WERE DOING.
IT'S NOT THAT WAY ON THE SPACE
STATION.
IT'S A BUSY PLACE.
SCOTT WILL HAVE A PLATE FULL OF
ACTIVITIES EVERY DAY.
SO YOU NEVER GET IN A STATE OF
BOREDOM.
IT'S MORE A CONSTANT SCRAMBLE TO
KEEP UP WITH THE DEMANDS OF ALL
THE MISSION CONTROLS AROUND THE
WORLD.
BUT THERE IS STHAIGHT STRAIGHT
PHYSICAL SEPARATION AND A SENSE
OF ISOLATION, NATURALLY, SO THAT
REQUIRES BUILDING YOUR CREW AS A
SENSE OF FAMILY BUT ALSO A
CHANGE OF HOW YOU COMMUNICATE
WITH YOUR OWN FAMILY, LIKE OUR
SOLDIERS THAT ARE OVERSEAS, LIKE
ALL OF THE PEOPLE THAT SERVE A
LONG TIME AWAY FROM HOME.
>> Brown: LUM JUST ASK YOU --
LET ME JUST ASK YOU, FINALLY,
ABOUT THE PHYSICAL ADJUSTMENTS
OF SPENDING THAT MUCH TIME OUT
OF GRAVERTY AND THE ADJUSTMENT
TO LIVING BACK ON EARTH.
>> SCOTT HAS BEEN UP THERE
BRIEFLY.
THERE ARE BEING CHANGES
INITIALLY.
YOUR BODY DOESN'T HAVE GRAVITY
PUSHING FLUID TO YOUR FEET.
YOU HAVE A BAD SINUS HEADACHE,
YOUR SUNG SWELLS, YOU'RE DIZZY,
NAUSEOUS, BUT THAT PASSES AFTER
A WEEK OR.
SO YOU GET INTO A ROUTINE OF
WORKOUT, AND YOU GET ADAPTED TO
WEIGHTLESSNESS.
IT'S MORE FUN THAN GRAVITY BUT
YOU PAY THE PRICE WHEN YOU COME
HOME.
YOU'RE SQUISHED WHEN YOU COME TO
GRAVITY, YOUR BODY HAS PROBLEMS
PUSH YOU CAN BLOOD TO YOUR HEAD.
YOUR BONES HAVE LOST DENSITY,
YOU HAVE TO GROW YOUR MUS
MUSCULATURE, BUT EVEN MORE
SLOWLY YOUR BONE DENSITY BACK.
NONE OF THAT COMES TORE FREE.
EXPLORATION ISN'T EASY.
THE STUFF THAT WE LEARN FROM IT,
IT TEACHES US ACROSS THE BOARD
FROM MAKING SPACE SHIPS SAFER TO
UNDERSTANDING HOW IT DID BODY
BUILDS BONE.
THERE IS A LOT TO LEARN AND
SCOTT IS O ON THE LEADING EDGE F
THAT.
>> Brown: CHRIS HADFIELD,
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
TROUBLES, THE PSYCHOLOGY, THE
PHYSICAL ISSUES, BUT IT'S AN
AMAZING EXPERIENCE, RIGHT, WHAT
YOU SEE OUT
FEEL?
>> SCOTT IS GOING TO BE ORBITING
THE PLANET AS IT GOES ALL THE
WAY AROUND THE SUN, ONE WHOLE
ORBIT AROUND THE SUN.
HE'S GOING AROUND THE WORLD 16
TIMES A DAY.
HE'LL SEE THE ENTIRE WORLD GO
FROM WINTER TO SUMMER TO WINTER.
HE'LL GET TO KNOW THE PLANET
LIKE ALMOST NO ONE IN HISTORY
EVER HAS.
THE BEAUTY OF IT, THE SUNRISE OR
SUNSET EVERY 45 MINUTES, JUST
THE RAW POWER OF THE NATURE OF
THE WORLD, IT IS A MESMERIZING
GORGEOUSNESS THAT YOU NEVER GET
TIRED OF.
SO, YEAH, HE'S DOING A LOT OF
SCIENCE UP THERE, IT'S
IMPORTANT, BUT IT IS SUCH A
BEAUTIFUL, MAGNIFICENT, PERSONAL
EXPERIENCE.
SCOTT IS A PRIVILEGED GUY TO BE
THERE AS A VANGUARD FOR US ALL.
>> Brown: EXTRAORDINARY.
CHRIS HADFIELD, THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR TELLING US ABOUT IT.
>> REALLY NAYS TO TALK WITH YOU,
JEFF.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, TO OUR
NEWSHOUR SHARES OF THE DAY,
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUT EYE
THAT MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO
YOU, TOO.
THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS RECENTLY
ACQUIRED MORE THAN 500 RARE
CIVIL WAR-ERA IMAGES FROM 87-
YEAR-OLD ROBIN STANFORD, WHO HAS
BEEN COLLECTING THE STEREOGRAPH
PHOTOS FOR FIVE DECADES.
THEY WERE MOSTLY MADE BY
CONFEDERATE PHOTOGRAPHERS.
THE LIBRARY HAS ALREADY
DIGITIZED THE FIRST 77 AND MADE
THEM AVAILABLE TO VIEW ONLINE.
SPEAKING WITH THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS, STANFORD EXPLAINED WHY
SHE DECIDED TO DONATE THEM NOW.
>> BIGGER THAN HE IS, I SWEAR.
MISCELLANEOUS CARDS AT AN
ANTIQUE SHOW AND THOUGHT THAT
WOULD BE FUN FOR THE KIDS.
LIKE I SAID, YOU KNOW, THE CAMEL
STUCK HIS NOSE IN THE TENT AND
FIRST THING YOU KNOW IT'S
SITTING DOWN TO DINNER AT YOUR
TABLE.
THAT'S HOW IT HAPPENED.
I LIKED THEM.
I FOUND THEM INTRIGUING BECAUSE
THEY BROUGHT PASTIMES, QUALITY
OF LIFE, MORE IMMEDIATELY AND I
LIKED HISTORY ALL MY LIFE, AND
THIS WAS A REAL SLICE OF
HISTORY.
I WAS PLANNING TO LEAVE THESE TO
MY SON.
HE LOVED HISTORY, ALSO.
AND I LOST HIM A YEAR AGO.
THE URGE WENT OUT OF THE BLOOM.
I STOPPED COLLECTING.
THAT WAS IT.
>> Woodruff: THE IMAGES ARE
FASCINATING AND YOU CAN SEE ALL
OF THEM AT THE LIBRARY OF
CONGRESS WEB SITE, LOC.gov.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN VIEW ALL
THE IMAGES AT THE LIBRARY OF
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
THE CLOCK ON THE IRAN NUCLEAR
NEGOTIATIONS TICKED DOWN TO JUST
24 HOURS, BUT MAJOR DIFFERENCES
REMAINED.
AND IN NIGERIA'S PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION, A FORMER MILITARY
DICTATOR LED PRESIDENT GOODLUCK
JONATHAN BY TWO MILLION VOTES,
WITH THREE-QUARTERS OF THE
UNTRCOY'S STATES COUNTED.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE, 34 YEARS
AGO TODAY, ON THE STREETS OF
WASHINGTON, D.C., JOHN HINCKLEY
JUNIOR TRIED TO ASSASSINATE
PRESIDENT RONALD REAGAN.
I REMEMBER THE SCENE VIVIDLY,
BECAUSE I WAS THERE, WORKING AS
AN NBC WHITE HOUSE
CORRESPONDENT.
IN A SPLIT SECOND, THE FATE OF
THE NATION WAS FOREVER CHANGED.
THIS AFTERNOON, AROUND THE TIME
THAT THE FIRST SHOT WAS TAKEN, I
RECALLED THE EVENT IN A SERIES
OF TWEETS.
YOU CAN READ THE NARRATIVE OF
THAT SOMBER DAY, ON OUR HOME
PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE
IS ON OUR WEB SITE,
pbs.org/newshour.IE
ROSE LATER THIS EVENING FOR HIS
FULL INTERVIEW WITH SYRIA'S
PRESIDENT ASSAD.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT HOW
SENDING ELECTRICAL VOLTS TO YOUR
BRAIN CAN MAKE YOU SMARTER.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.